This is your complete guide to growing
on Instagram starting from zero
followers. And this video isn't going to
be 100 steps or 17 steps or even 10
steps. There are only six necessary
steps for growing your Instagram from
zero to over 10,000 followers. And best
of all, the strategies that I'm going to
teach you in today's episode are not
time wasters. They're not things like
removing spam followers or finding the
right hashtags. In fact, with these
strategies, you can grow on Instagram in
less than 15 minutes per day. I'm all
about giving you the most efficient
strategies. The strategies that have
been researched that are tried and true
and tested so that you can get the best
results in the least amount of time
possible. That is how I've grown my
personal following to over 800,000
followers. It's how I grew my dog's
Instagram account to over 200,000
followers. And it's the reason that my
Instagram school, the Insta Club, is the
number one Instagram academy in the
world. We've helped over 50,000 people
grow on Instagram and our average
student grows by,200 followers in their
first 30 days alone. Additionally, over
the last 5 years, I have personally
started about a dozen different accounts
in different niches. Some of them
completely private, some of them
completely faceless, so people have no
idea it's me. And all of them now have
over 10,000, if not over 100,000
followers. Let's not waste any more
time. Let's get right into it. Step
number one for growing on Instagram is
actually something that you need to do
before even creating your account. So,
if you're watching this episode and
you've already created your account, you
actually might need to go back a few
steps to make sure that you do things in
the right order because the way that I'm
presenting them to you today is not just
some random order. This is in sequential
order, laying the foundation first and
foremost by picking our niche. Step
number one for growing on Instagram is
the same step number one for growing on
Tik Tok or YouTube or any social
network. And it is that you have to
identify two things. Your niche is
comprised of the who and the what. The
who is the demographics of your target
audience. So the more that you know
about them, their age, their geographic
region, their struggles, their pain
points, their education level, their
marital status, how many kids they have,
all of those things will help you in the
future. So the who is the first part of
your niche and the second part of your
niche is the what. Of course, you can't
just have an ideal audience, men in
their 20s. You have to figure out what
you're going to be talking to that
audience about. Now, I know that when
you clicked on this episode, you
probably already had an idea of what you
wanted your new Instagram to be about.
If that's the case, that's great. But I
want to challenge you to niche down even
further. The riches are in the niches,
and the more specific that you can get,
the better. The great thing about a
niche is that you can broaden out over
time. As your account grows, you can
start to talk about more things. My
original niche when I first started
growing this whole social media business
online was actually helping moms keep
their teens safe on Snapchat. And then
over time that grew into Snapchat
marketing because I had all these moms
following me and they had little side
businesses and I was growing my business
on Snapchat and so they wanted to learn
how to grow their businesses on
Snapchat. A few years later, there was a
mass exodus from Snapchat and everyone
went to Instagram. And so, I took what I
had learned about Snapchat stories and
applied it to Instagram stories. And so,
when I first got started as an Instagram
coach, I wasn't helping people with
anything and everything related to their
Instagram. I was only helping people
with their Instagram stories. I was
helping people get more views and make
more sales through Instagram stories.
That's what allowed me to grow and stand
out in those early stages. There are
tens of thousands of Instagram coaches
out there and a lot of them are really
good. I would argue there's probably a
lot that know a lot more and are a lot
smarter than me. But I was able to grow
because in those early days, I
hyperfocused on Instagram stories. And
then a few years later, I started to
broaden out my niche and apply a lot of
what I had learned about Instagram
stories to Instagram reels. And so I
started talking a lot about Instagram
reels. And then my following grew even
more. But if you want to make a name for
yourself, if you want to stand out in
your saturated industry, which don't get
me wrong, every industry is a saturated
industry nowadays, the way that you do
that is by niching down. You don't try
to be the vanilla. You don't try to be
the account that can solve everyone's
needs. You pick a super specific
demographic of people and a super
specific thing that you're going to help
them with, content that you're going to
post about or topic that all of your
posts are going to relate to. and then
you stay in that lane. As you stay in
that lane, you will start to grow. You
will grow faster and over time, you can
eventually broaden out. But none of that
is possible if you don't start step
number one by niching down. And don't
worry, there's no such thing as a wrong
or a right niche. Sure, you can make the
argument that some are slightly better
or worse than others. Some might have a
clientele that has a little bit more
expendable money. Some might have a
larger group of people online and so you
have a higher ceiling of followers. But
I don't want you to get caught up in the
right or wrong decision. Ultimately,
just pick something like I did with
helping moms keep their kids safe on
Snapchat and you can always grow and
evolve from there. Speaking of growing
and evolving, the very next step, step
number two for growing your Instagram
from zero followers is to start your
account. Obviously, if we want to grow
our Instagram, we have to have an
Instagram account. But here is my
step-by-step guide for setting up your
account correctly so that you can be set
up for success and actually hit the
ground running. Step number one is of
course picking your username. No two
people on Instagram can share the same
username. Fortunately for you, your
username should be your brand name. If
you have a personal brand like I do,
where my Instagram account reflects me
as a person, well then your username
should be your personal name, whatever
you go by or want to be known as. If you
are starting this as a business brand,
you're starting the Instagram account to
represent the company that you have,
well then your username should be the
company's name. If someone else has
already taken your name as their
username, where they've taken your
business name and made that your
username, I feel like it's always those
random people who created an account in
2014, they posted once and then they
haven't posted since and yet they have
your perfect username. Unfortunately,
there's no way that you can get that
username from them. So, the best thing
that you can do is add a period, an
underscore. Maybe you add the word 'the'
in front of your username or official at
the end of your username. Just get
creative with it. Maybe even use an AI
tool like Chat GBT to come up with some
slight variations so that your name is
still easy to read and that it still
represents you or your business's name.
The second step to setting up your
profile correctly is what's called the
name line. Now, what most people put on
this nameline is, you guessed it, their
own name. But the name line is 100%
searchable. Anything that you put on
that line becomes a way that you can be
discovered within Instagram search and
outside of Instagram search on Google
and any other search engine. So, of
course, you don't want to just repeat
your name or your business's name.
Instead, what I recommend putting on
your nameline is some searchable
keywords, kind of like a title for your
Instagram account. So, to use myself as
an example, my username is Brock 11
Johnson. Brock Johnson was taken. 11 is
my lucky number. So, I made my username
Brock 11 Johnson. Like I said, my
Instagram is a personal brand. And so,
my username is my personal name, what
I'm known as. But my Instagram name line
says Instagram growth coach. That is
because that term is searchable. Now, I
would recommend that you get a little
bit more specific than just Instagram
growth coach. As I've grown over the
years, I again have gotten a little bit
less specific and a little bit more
broad with what my title is. The most
important key factor to keep in mind
with your nameline is that this is
supposed to be searchable. So, you don't
want to use any sort of insider lingo or
any special nickname that you've given
yourself like the marketing bestie or
something like that. You want to come up
with a term or title that would be
searchable. For this, I recommend using
Google Trends as a very useful tool to
actually see what people are looking up
and what they are searching for. And you
have to walk this fine line between on
one hand being general enough that
people would actually look it up yet
still being specific enough that you're
not going to get lost in the masses. So
if you said fitness expert, that would
definitely be broad enough that people
are looking for fitness experts online.
But unfortunately, that might be too
broad and you're going to get lost
amongst the 50,000 other fitness experts
on Instagram. So, you want to really
find that sweet spot where you are
discoverable yet not too specific and
not too broad. Next up is the profile
picture. If your Instagram is reflective
of a personal brand, your profile
picture should be that person. I
recommend it being a close-up
highquality well-lit selfie. Not one of
these full body shots, not a picture
that has a lot of different props or a
lot of different people. A close-up
well-lit selfie so that it really stands
out from the hundreds of thousands of
other profile pictures that people see
every single day. If you are creating an
Instagram account for your business
brand, the most common mistake that I
see people making is using their
business's generic logo as their profile
picture. But unfortunately, most logos
were not created to be itty bitty tiny
little profile pictures. Instead, most
logos were created to go on the top of
storefronts or on billboards or on the
banner of your website. And so, what I
recommend doing instead is using or if
you don't have one, creating an icon
version of your logo. It's basically a
simplified, recognizable graphic that
can be used as your logo instead of
using your entire company name. Don't
worry, only two more steps to setting up
your profile correctly. But the second
to last one is super important, and it's
the actual bio that you're writing. What
should it actually say? What should go
in your bio? An easy template that you
can follow is that line number one
should be what I like to call your niche
statement. That means that line number
one should cover the who and the what.
It should plainly tell people why they
should follow your account or who your
account is for. If you want a
templatized first line, you can use the
sentence, I help blank with blank. So, I
help who with what? I help people over
the age of 40 with learning to rock
climb for the first time in their lives.
Whatever that specific niche is, that's
the first line. The second line can add
context to the first line. It could be
your qualifications. It could be your
own past experience. It could be your
certifications. It could be your own
personal story. Or it could provide what
you help people do without. For example,
I help people over the age of 40 learn
to rock climb without ever going to a
rock climbing gym or without needing
special equipment or without spending
more than 30 minutes a day. So, it could
be kind of like a continuation of that
first line. The third line can be a
little bit more creative. It's a little
bit more flexible. You can share your
credibility. You can share your
background. You can share some sort of
mission statement. Just basically
anything that might encourage someone to
follow you. I do want to encourage you
in general in your bio to avoid cliches,
to avoid redundancies, to avoid any
unnecessary words or lingo that wouldn't
make sense to the average person. Really
try to keep it simple so that it can
deliver impact in the most succinct
packaging possible. And then finally,
last but not least, the fourth line is
where you put a call to action, telling
people what you want them to do next.
Maybe you want them to follow along for
more daily tips. Maybe you want them to
DM you the word guide in order to
receive your free ebook. Maybe you want
them to click the link in your bio to
get 15% off their first order. Whatever
you want people to do next, put that in
the fourth line. And yes, I said fourth
and last because I recommend having no
more than four lines in your bio. If you
go on to a fifth, sixth, seventh,
whatever line, Instagram will
automatically truncate it with a dot dot
dot more, cutting off the rest of your
bio and making it less accessible for
the average person, requiring that
people tap an extra button to read your
whole bio, which spoiler alert, they're
not going to do. And last, but not
least, I'll call this an optional step,
but it is something that I would
recommend once you have set up your bio
completely. I would recommend signing up
for Metaverified. Now, Metaverified is
the program where you can pay a monthly
fee in order to get the blue check mark
on your Instagram account. In addition
to that special blue badge, you also get
active impersonation monitoring by
Instagram. You get a private chat
one-on-one with Instagram support. And
maybe best of all, a recent addition to
Metaverified is that any verified users
will now show up at the top of search
results as long as you are searching for
terms that are in that person's bio. And
so if you're starting a new Instagram
account, it might behoove you to verify
this new account so that it
automatically shows up above your old
account. Again, this step isn't
necessary, but it is something that I
would recommend as it is quite helpful.
Okay, so we have our niche, we have our
profile all set up. Step number three
for growing your Instagram from zero
followers is to post 15 times. Now,
there are some disclaimers that I need
to make, so stick with me for just a
second. It's important to understand the
why or the goal behind these 15 posts.
The goal of these 15 posts is not to
grow your following just yet. The goal
of these 15 posts is not to get views,
to go viral, to get engagement, to make
sales or anything like that. The goal of
these 15 posts is simply to have
something to look at so that when people
find your page, when people start
showing up on your account, there's not
just two posts or zero posts. There's
actually some content that is ready to
be consumed. There are some examples of
what people can expect from you. Think
about it like a storefront. You wouldn't
say, "It's our grand opening. Come on
in." And they come into the store and
there's nothing there. You wouldn't say,
"Go check out my new website the day
that you purchase the domain before
you've even set up the website because
they're just going to go to it and it's
going to be a blank page." We don't want
your Instagram to look like that. So,
we're going to have 15 posts posted
before you do anything else before we
move on to step four. Because I don't
care about the performance of these 15
posts. I don't care if you post them all
back to back to back to back on the same
day or if you space them out. I don't
care if it takes you 3 months to get
these 15 posts posted. You just need 15
things posted. And when I say 15 things
posted, I'm not referring to stories.
I'm referring to feed posts. So that
includes your reels, photos, and
carousels. Again, I don't care if it's
15 reels, zero photos, and zero
carousels. I don't care if it's a
perfect split between the three. I just
need 15 pieces of content posted to your
feed. Of those 15 posts, all 15 should
relate to your niche. No date night
selfies, no vacation recaps, no kid on
their first day of school, no what you
hate for lunch. All of those 15 posts
should in some way relate to the niche
that you have outlined in your bio. And
of those 15, there are three that I need
you to specifically create. The first
kind of post that I need you to
specifically create is an about me post.
This post should be as succinct or short
as possible telling your audience about
you or your brand, giving a little bit
of background, a little bit of your
mission, and a little bit of why you are
creating this Instagram account. The
second kind of post that should be
included in those first 15 posts is an
about our business or about our services
or our offers. Basically, what is it
that you're going to be selling? What's
the business going to be? Or if this
isn't going to be a business and you're
not going to be selling anything or
maybe you don't know exactly what you're
going to be selling just yet, give some
background, some additional context.
Maybe expand on that about me post and
go a little bit more in-depth into your
story about why you created this account
or what the purpose of this account is
or what kind of content people should
expect from this account. And then the
third kind of post that I specifically
recommend making in those first 15 is a
quick win. This is something that if
you're a brand or a business is
basically giving someone a quick result,
not even needing to put in their email
address or sign up for something, just a
quick tip. Something that in that moment
is kind of like a life hack. Something
that by the end of the video, they're
going to be like, "Oh my gosh, this was
so helpful or this was so good." If you
don't necessarily have something that is
like educational or tutorialbased, it
could just be something that's super
entertaining, something that's super
funny, but still of course relates to
your niche and exemplifies what people
can expect on your page. Basically, you
want it to be something that by the end
of the post, people are really happy.
They really feel like your account is
worth following. And then once you have
all 15 of those posts posted, you're
going to take those three specific ones
that we just outlined and you're going
to pin them to the top of your profile.
So, the about me is going to be the
first pinned post in the upper left. The
additional background about our business
and services, that's going to be the
second post in the upper middle. And
then the third post that I recommended,
the one that is kind of like a good
example of your account or a quick win,
that's going to be the third pinned post
in the upper right hand corner. Now, by
this point, we've done a lot of work and
we still have zero followers. Guess
what? Step number four, we're still
going to have probably zero or very
little followers. We haven't announced
your account yet. We're not even in the
growth stages yet. We're still in the
setup stages. Step number four is one of
the most commonly skipped steps. And
yet, I would argue it is the most
important step in this whole process,
and it is that you need to have 14
additional posts made before moving on
to step five. Of course, you don't know
what step five is yet, but if you're
following along so far, we have our
niche. We've optimized our profile.
We've posted our first 15 posts. And
now, before doing anything else, I'm
telling you to create, not post, but
create at least 14 additional posts.
Now, in just a minute, I'm going to talk
to you about what these posts should
look like, quality, quantity, what
should the topics of the posts be, but
the TLDDR is that all of your posts
should relate to your niche. So, what
you're going to do right now is create
at least 14 additional reels or photos
and or carousels that are ready to go,
ready to be posted in the future, but
not posted just yet. And the reason for
that being step number four and being so
crucial before step number five is that
step number five is launch. Step number
five is to let all of your existing
channels, your previous channels, your
other channels, your other social
networks know about this new account.
But here's what most people do. They
create a brand new Instagram account.
Maybe they set up their profile and then
that day they announce it on all their
other socials. So they have skipped step
three. They have nothing on their
channel to look at, nothing on their
profile for people to consume. But even
if they did do step three, even if they
did post, let's say 15 photos that day
before they announced it, what happens
is suddenly day two arrives and they
have a couple hundred new followers from
their old Tik Tok and YouTube and their
old Instagram, but they have no post
ready to go. And so now you're stuck on
this hamster wheel day after day of
having to create and post and create and
post and create and post. So again,
before we launch, before we announce
this new account, which is step five,
step number four is to create at least
14 posts. But the more the marrier. If
you can create 28 posts, if you can
create 30 posts, if you can create 100
posts, whatever, the more posts you can
create, the more peace of mind you're
going to have going into this and the
easier those first few months are going
to feel. And the first few months are
always the hardest. And so you might as
well do everything you can to set
yourself up for success before launch by
creating as many posts as possible. Like
I said though, step number five is to
launch to announce on all of your other
profiles and channels that you have a
new Instagram account. I would recommend
announcing this on any other Instagram
account that you have, your old
Instagram account, any other social
media, Twitter, Tik Tok, YouTube,
whatever. If you have an email list,
which if you have a business, I hope you
have an email list. If you don't have an
email list, I would argue you don't have
a business, but I digress. Announce it
on your email list. Announce it on your
text list. Announce it in person if you
have a physical location business.
Basically, scream your head off for the
next one to two weeks on all of those
other channels that you have a new
Instagram account and that people should
go follow it. Now, part of that
screaming your head off and part of
announcing that you have a new account
should be making it crystal clear for
people who should follow this new
account and who shouldn't. It shouldn't
just be follow this new account because
you're my best friend and you need to
support me. It shouldn't just be follow
this new account because I'm desperate.
It should be follow this new account
because every single day I'm going to be
posting helpful tips for women over the
age of 40 who want to learn how to rock
climb. That way people can make an
informed decision as to whether or not
they want to even follow you. They're
not just blindly following you, which
will hurt your engagement rate in the
future. They're not just following you
because they want to support you as a
person, which will probably hurt your
engagement rate in the future. they're
following you because they actually want
to stay engaged and see the posts that
you are making. The final thing that
I'll say about this announcement is that
you could host a giveaway. Again, this
is one of those things that's not
required, but it could be helpful.
Basically, everyone who follows this new
account will be entered in to win the
giveaway. And the biggest key with the
giveaway is just make sure it's
something people actually want. If
you're starting a new account for your
social media management agency, I
wouldn't recommend giving away a free
management package because it's likely
that a lot of people aren't going to
really trust you yet. Maybe they're not
going to believe in your services. It's
not something that is that sought after
most likely. So instead, figure out
something that people really do want and
that relates to your niche. Basically,
if we want to incentivize people
following us, we want to make sure that
that incentive is as appealing as
possible. And finally, last but not
least, the sixth and final step to
actually growing your Instagram from
zero followers this year is to post.
I'm just kidding. Of course, yes, that
is the sixth and final step. But let's
break it down. What the heck do I even
mean by post? First and foremost, not
stories. Stories are definitely a
helpful way to build a relationship with
your followers. They can be a great way
to build trust. And as you're growing on
Instagram, I do recommend posting
stories, but stories can be more of like
your afterthought. They can be more of
just like a quick way to document your
day, not necessarily something that
you're focused on. I never recommend
creating or curating or planning
stories. Instead, stories are just meant
to be a documentation. They're just
supposed to be quick snippets of your
day so that people get to know you a
little bit better. So, when I say post,
I am referring to feed posts. I'm
referring to photos, carousels, and
reals. During this early stage, I would
recommend focusing the majority of your
posting on reals because studies show
that on average, reals reach more
nonfollowers. Reals have a greater
potential to go viral and reach new
people. And so, I would focus most of
your posting on reals. But I wouldn't do
only reals. I would also mix in some
carousels. I wouldn't do too many still
single image posts because studies show
that carousels far outperform single
image posts and the difference for you
as a creator between a single image
photo versus a two slide carousel or
even just a regular short carousel is
probably not too big of a difference. So
if you want me to put a number on it, I
would recommend about 75% of your posts
during these early stages as reels and
about 25% being carousels. The way that
you grow on Instagram is posting a high
quantity of high quality posts. To say
it another way, posting a lot of really
good content. Now, early on, you're not
going to be a great content creator.
You're probably not going to have a lot
of great high-quality content ready to
go. And so, you have two options to
figure out how to create highquality
content. Option number one is not what I
would recommend, but you could do it.
Option number one is to study. Watch a
bunch of YouTube videos. Watch more of
my podcast episodes, take a bunch of
courses and study content creation. Go
back to school and learn cinematography
and photography and graphic design and
copywriting. Or the other option, option
number two that I would recommend is
practice. Practice makes progress. And
fortunately for you, quantity breeds
quality. And so while on Instagram you
need a combination of both quality and
quantity, the really cool thing is that
quantity breeds quality. Quantity leads
to quality. Additionally, something that
I'm somewhat known for saying and also
sometimes that people really get mad at
me for saying is that the more you post,
the more you grow. There have been
numerous studies done on Instagram that
have shown that there's a direct
correlation between the frequency in
your posting, so how many times per day
or per week you post, and your growth
rate. And every one of those studies
shows the exact same thing. There is no
upper limit. The more you post, the more
you grow. To say it another way and put
it into real numbers, posting twice a
day is better than posting once a day.
Posting once a week will lead to more
growth than posting every other week.
The most recent of these studies was
done by Buffer where they analyzed
hundreds of thousands of Instagram
accounts and their findings were in
alignment with every other study that
I've ever read on this topic, which is
the more you post, the more you grow.
Now, I'm really glad that you didn't
stop watching after that last sentence
because it's the next sentence that is
absolutely key. Yes, the more you post,
the more you grow. But your focus should
be on what you can sustain. Because if
you cannot sustain that frequency, if
you burn out, if you're inconsistent, if
you miss days or weeks at a time, you
will not grow. You have to have a
sustained and consistent frequency in
order to reap the benefits of the more
you post, the more you grow. For you and
for every single person watching and or
listening to today, we're all going to
have different levels that we can
sustain. And it's going to be based off
a million different variables. our
season of life, our season of business,
our resources, our team, our
capabilities, our content, all of that
is going to impact how much we're truly
able to post. I want you to figure out
ways to post more without working more.
I am not a fan of hustle culture. I am
not a fan of working more hours to
create more content, to spend more time
on your phone, to work more in your
business, and lose your life to this
whole damn Instagram thing. Instead, I
want you to be more efficient. I want
you to be able to grow while working
smarter, while working less. And so with
that being said, I have four tips for
you to increase your quantity. And then
I have four tips for you to increase
your quality. Because remember, as we
are posting and growing on Instagram, it
is ultimately a combination of a high
quantity of posts that are high quality
that will lead to ultimate growth. So
let's get into it. My top four tips for
quantity on Instagram. And this is
coming from someone who averages 250
posts per month while working less than
15 minutes per day on Instagram. Tip
number one, stop trying to make every
damn post you make perfect. They don't
have to be perfect. They don't have to
be touchdown slam dunk home runs. Plus,
let me ask you this. How many times in
the past have you made a post that you
thought was going to be great? You
thought it was going to be hilarious,
viral, this was going to be the post
that made you famous, and then you
posted it and it flopped. It did not
perform well. It performed below
average. Heck, maybe it even was the
worst post that you made that week or
that month. Yeah, absolutely. And so, if
you already have evidence of that
happening in the past, why are you
consistently trying to recreate that in
the future? Stop overanalyzing your
posts. Stop nitpicking every single
little detail. Stop worrying about the
edits and the filters and the Photoshop.
Unless your goal is to be that person.
Unless your goal is to be known for
having A+ Stephen Spielberg cinematic
high production professional level
content, don't even try. And yes, I
truly mean don't even try. I recently
did an episode about the way the
algorithms have changed and the way us
as consumers expect content to be
presented. And the argument that I made
in that episode was that most people end
up in a middle ground where they have
horribly performing content, but they've
spent some amount of time editing it.
And so in that episode, I make kind of
an argument towards the raw, the
imperfect, the real, the authentic
content. So if you want more information
on that, I'll link it up up here and you
can check that out. But my point is
this. Stop overanalyzing everything you
post and just press post. Tip number two
for achieving high quantity is to
schedule posts in the past. Remember
step number four was to create 14 posts.
That was so that when you announce your
Instagram, you have 14 posts ready to
go. And according to this current tip,
you could schedule those for the future.
So, if you have 14 posts and the
sustainable level that you think you can
achieve is one per day, great. Well,
then you can schedule those out one per
day for the next two weeks. And on the
day that you announce the account, you
don't have to make a post. On the next
day, you don't have to make a post. You
could spend the next two weeks after the
announcement day, after launch day,
creating additional content to help you
stay ahead. Scheduling posts will not
hurt your views. It will not hurt your
engagement. 85% of my content is
scheduled. Adam Moseri, the head of
Instagram, in my interview with him
earlier this year, said that pretty much
all of his posts are scheduled. So,
schedule your posts. Stop being silly.
Tip number three for achieving a high
quantity is to work smarter and not
harder. And I think the easiest way that
you can apply this is to use AI. Use
tools like Chat GPT. Use tools like
Munch. Use tools like the Brockbot to
help you create content faster, more
efficiently, to extrapolate on ideas. To
take scripts for reals and turn them
into carousels, to take transcripts for
your reels and turn them into captions,
to take captions and repurpose them into
text posts. There's so many different
ways that you could use AI to create
more content that's still authentic,
that's still from you, that's still in
your voice. It's just expanded or
multiplied without having to do a bunch
of work. I mentioned the Brockbot. The
Brockbot is kind of like if ChachBT and
my brain had a baby. And don't get me
wrong, I think Chachbt is great. I think
Chachib is good at a lot of different
things. But I don't think that ChatBT is
necessarily an expert when it comes to
Instagram, especially when you consider
that the top two most commonly cited
sources by ChatBT are Reddit and
Wikipedia. Not exactly the most academic
of places to learn about Instagram
strategy. And so the Brockbot is a
generative chatbot just like Chat TPTT
is, but its knowledgebased is based off
of my trainings, my expertise, and my
strategies. If you want the link to
that, I'll put that down in the show
notes below. It's less than half the
price of Chat GBT, which I think is
pretty affordable and pretty cool. So,
if you want an AI tool to help you work
smarter that is actually taught by an
Instagram expert and uses real Instagram
strategies, consider checking out the
Brockbot. And then last but not least,
last but most, my all-time favorite
strategy for increasing your quantity so
that you can achieve a high quantity of
content without having to work your butt
off all the time is to upcycle. Upycling
is a term that I use to refer to taking
a post from the past and uploading it a
second time, posting it a second time.
When I say upcycle, you could either
take something from the past that has
worked well, that's gotten good
engagement, good views, and slightly
recreate it. Maybe change the words a
little bit, rewrite the caption, maybe
you're going to re-edit it, refilm it,
maybe you're going to change up the
words of the hook, something like that.
Basically, taking a post from the past
and recreating it for the present.
That's one form of upycling. But the
other form of upycling that's even
easier is taking a post from the past
and simply posting it again. If this
Instagram that you're starting from zero
is an Instagram that you're actually
starting over because you had a previous
account, maybe you had a previous Tik
Tok, maybe you had other social medias,
take your best performing content from
those other social medias or from your
old Instagram. And as long as it relates
to your niche, post it again on your new
Instagram. It's your content. You own
the rights to it. It's not duplicate
content. It's not lowquality. It's not
stolen content because it's yours. You
own the rights to it directly from Meta
staff. I've spoken with them about this
topic numerous times. You are free and
clear to repost your own content
whenever you want. In fact, a lot of
people are surprised to learn this
statistic, but over twothirds of my
posts that you see on my Instagram
account are upcycled. That means that
more than two out of three of the posts
that you're seeing on my Instagram every
single day are ideas, topics, posts that
I've made in the past that I'm either
slightly tweaking and reposting today or
that I am literally directly word for
word re-uploading a second time. The
reality is most people are not going to
remember. The average person sees 10,000
posts a day. So please don't flatter
yourselves by assuming that they
remember your post from two months ago.
They probably don't. and they probably
didn't even see it in the first place.
So, please upcycle your content and give
it more life. It deserves to be shown to
the world. So, don't post it only once
and then forget about it. Post it
multiple times. Those were my top four
tips for achieving a high quantity of
content. Now, let's talk about my top
four tips for achieving a high quality
content. Number one is to focus on your
hooks. Hooks are everything. If you can
get people to just watch past the first
3 seconds, you're going to be far above
the rest. your content is going to far
outperform the average. Most people
aren't watching videos for more than
about 2 and 1/2 seconds. And so, if you
can have a strong hook, you will get
people to watch for longer, get people
to engage, and get people to actually
follow and even become customers of your
account. I would recommend spending 80%
of your time, energy, and effort on just
those first 3 seconds, just that opening
frame, that opening scene, and that
opening sentence. If you can improve
that, your overall reels will improve as
well. I think this episode is already
long enough. So, if you want an in-depth
episode on creating better hooks, I have
that up here for you, and I'll link that
in the show notes as well. Tip number
two for achieving a high quality of
content is that success leaves clues.
What I mean by that is you aren't the
first person who's tried to make good
posts for social media. There are so
many great content creators out there.
There are so many great pages out there.
And so, I am not encouraging you to
steal their content. But what I am
encouraging you to do is stop just
mindlessly consuming with your brain
turned off where you're just doom
scrolling for hours and start
consciously consuming. Start being aware
of why did this hook grab my attention?
Why did this reel bore me? Why was this
video so funny? Why was this so
relatable? Why did I send this to a
friend? Why did this video make me mad?
What inspired me to leave a three-s
sentence comment on this post? Start to
ask yourself those questions and you'll
start to pick up on these little clues
and elements that you can then
incorporate into your own reels. My
additional tip on top of this is don't
just get trapped in your own niches
bubble. So, if you're helping people
become rock climbers, don't just follow
hundreds of other rock climbing accounts
and get all your inspiration from other
rock climbers because then you're going
to just end up paring them. you're going
to just end up as a cheap knockoff, a
copy if you will, of everyone else in
your industry. Instead, get inspired
from books, from newspapers, from people
outside of your industry. Get inspired
from a YouTube video and apply it to
your Instagram. Get inspired from a Tik
Tok and apply it to your Instagram. Get
inspired from a comic strip and a
newspaper and apply it to your
Instagram. Get your inspiration from a
diverse pool of people and creators and
mediums, and it will help you create
better, more diverse content that is at
the same time more authentic to you. Tip
number three for creating high-quality
content is K I SS. Keep it simple,
sweetheart. The simpler you can make
your content, the better. And that's
because most people are mindlessly
consuming. Most people are scrolling and
seeing 10,000 posts a day. So, as soon
as you start trying to make your content
really smart and sophisticated and using
fancy words, you lose people. As soon as
you start using that insider lingo and
that fancy term to flex your knowledge
and boost your own ego of how cool am I,
how smart am I, you lose people's
attention. Basically, dumb it down and
speed it up. If you can make your
content more concise, more succinct, and
simpler to understand, that's better.
And then finally, last but not least,
the best kind of content for growing on
Instagram is shareworthy content.
Shareworthy content, as the name
explains, is content that is worthy of
being shared. Posts that are worthy of
being sent from one person to another.
Shares are disproportionately the best
kind of engagement on Instagram.
compared to likes and comments and
saves, shares get you way more views per
interaction. And so, if you can create
the kind of content that actually gets
sent from one person to another or to
another group chat or from one person to
their Instagram stories, that's really
how you're going to grow. That's how
you're going to go viral. That's how
you're going to reach targeted accounts
fast and so that you can actually grow
your Instagram and see results.
Shareworthy content is another one of
those big topics that we could spend a
long time talking about. And I know that
I'm already known for yapping a little
bit. Trust me, I see your comments about
how I'm long-winded and I talk too much.
I'm just trying to simplify things. I'm
trying to make sure that no one gets
left behind. So, I'm sorry if sometimes
I'm a little bit redundant saying the
same thing multiple different ways. I do
apologize. I'm working on it.
Nonetheless, I've done an entire episode
on shareworthy content in the past. So,
if you want an in-depth guide or
tutorial as to how to create shareworthy
content, I will link up a video that
I've done in the past on that topic. And
I'll even link up a free guide that I
created that is kind of like a typed up
version of that episode as well. But
that's it. Those are the six steps to
growing your Instagram account from zero
followers this year. I guess step number
seven would be to just keep going
consistently. Keep doing step number
six. Keep posting. Keep showing up. And
it's going to take some time. I mean,
realistically, it takes the average
account 9 to 12 months of consistent
effort to reach about a,000 followers.
Like I said earlier, our average Insta
Club student does grow by 1,200
followers in their first 30 days, but
that's not realistic for everyone.
Realistically, it's going to take you
some time to grow. It's going to take
you months, if not years, to hit 10K or
to hit 100K followers. I hope it doesn't
take you that long, but I want you to
embrace the suck. I want you to enter
the pain cave. I want you to understand
that it's probably not going to be
overnight success. If you want to learn
more about the Insta Club, my Instagram
school, I'll link that up in the show
notes below. But I want to say thank you
so much for listening today. I hope you
found this valuable. Don't forget to hit
that subscribe button before you scroll
away.